# Smart-Masjid
"Embodying architectural brilliance, our smart masjid harmoniously blends modern technology with timeless Islamic design. Intelligent energy management, automated prayer timings, and seamless connectivity empower worshippers in a serene and spiritually uplifting environment."

# Abstract 

"The primary objectives of this project are to design and develop an experimental model for a Smart Masjid that uses the principle of IoT. To apply the principle of IoT to such a system we can implement sensors, actuators, modules, and data analysis techniques, the Smart Masjid system automates routine tasks, optimizes resource utilization, and provides real-time information to worshippers. The main strategy of this study area focuses on Energy Conservation, Energy Management, Prayer Time Management, Event Management, and enhancing user experience in Smart Masjid.

This project methodology involves a comprehensive literature review to explore the existing implementation of Smart Masjid and IoT technologies in religious contexts. It also explores the existing IoT system implemented in Smart Homes, IoT in the Industries sectors, and energy management systems used today. Based on the research and discovery, a system architecture is proposed and the necessary hardware and software components are selected. In system architecture, we use NodeMcu\textbf{(ESP8266)} Wifi-based board that can be used to establish internet connectivity between IoT devices and Mobile apps for real-time monitoring. We use Arduino Mega \textbf{(Atmega 2560 Rev3)} that can be used to connect different devices like sensors, actuators, relays, and modules to transmit data into Arduino by looking into the surrounding and environmental conditions. The Arduino Mega and ESP modules can be connected serially using the Universal Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter \textbf{(UART)} protocol. UART protocol uses two communication lines one is called the transmitter (Tx) and another one is the receiver (Rx). The designed system is then implemented, considering the Masjid environment, requirements, and challenges.

The Smart Masjid is evaluated through quantitative and qualitative analysis. Data is collected and analyzed to review the system's performance regarding prayer time accuracy, energy saving, and user satisfaction. In the user's feedback survey, less were disagree, and more strongly agreed with the implementation of IoT in religious spaces. The result clarifies that the Smart Masjid can greatly improve the efficiency of energy saving, reduce water over usage, and security, and boost worshipers' experiences."
